---
layout: post
title:  AboutMe
date: 2024-05-02 15:48:37.000000000 +09:00
tags: Me
---

# Robin Deng
## iOS Developer

Mobile Phone: +86 15201019098 | Email: dengbinhero@gmail.com | Location: Beijing, China

## Education
- [Peiking University](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peking_University)(QS12) - Master's Degree in Engineering 2021.9 - 2023.6
- [Hunan University of Science and Technology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hunan_University_of_Science_and_Engineering) - Bachelor's Degree in Communication Engineering 2009.9 - 2013.6

## Personal Strengths
- 12 years of experience with iOS development, proficient in Objective-C, Swift, SwiftUI, React Native, and HarmonyOS
- Served as a technical lead and core business developer in China's largest social media app (with 600 million MAU) with 6 years of team management experience
- Proficient in the field of instant messaging (IM), serving as a technical lead and core developer
- Possess performance optimization and architectural design capabilities, having developed applications and SDKs from scratch multiple times
- Passionate about technology, adept at software design thinking, enjoys using new technologies

## Work Experience
#### [Sina Weibo](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id350962117) - Tech Lead, Beijing, China, 2016.9 - Now
China's largest social media app with an average of 246 million DAU and 566 million MAU. Lead in technical aspects of Weibo messaging, IM, IMSDK, and Live SDK. Involved in the development of top-tier IM applications.

#### BreadTrip - Team Leader, Beijing, China, 2014.12 - 2016.8
Best App of the Year 2012 on App Store. Development team leader responsible.

#### CCM Medical Group - Mobile Tech Lead, Beijing, China, 2012.12 - 2014.12
Development and team management of key apps with "Pocket doctor".

## Project Experience
- <strong>[Weibo](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id350962117)</strong>
- Project Description： 
    - One of the largest social media platforms in China, listed on NASDAQ.
    - Average daily active users of 246 million, and monthly active users of 566 million.
    - One of the largest and most influential apps in china
- Achievements:
    - Tech Lead with a team management role, consistently ranked in the top 10% performance. Responsible for technical aspects of projects including Weibo private group chat, IM SDK (for platforms like Yizhibo and Beeto app), live streaming SDK, and Hongdou live streaming SDK. Led a team of 8 members.
    - Built a robust and stable Weibo instant messaging SDK from scratch, enabling multiple apps to integrate private messaging functionality. Achieved a message push success rate of 99.99%+.
    - Established an end-to-end logging system, connecting various components such as client, mapi, and platform. Enabled comprehensive performance tracking and proactive monitoring, significantly improving issue investigation efficiency and performance bottleneck analysis.
    - Merged upstream and downstream channels, resulting in a 20% improvement in message efficiency.
    - Implemented offline packaging and push, binary push, TLS authentication, and fragmented uploading for voice and image files.
    - Optimized message caching architecture for continuous messaging, enhanced QPS pressure, and achieved at least a 10x performance improvement.
- <strong>BreadTrip</strong>
- Project Description： 
    - BreadTrip is a travel app with record and share their experiences
    - It was recommended by the App Store in 17 countries, named the Best App of 2012, and even pre-installed on Apple devices.
    - The company secured $50 million in Series C funding.
- Achievements：
    - Involved in the development of multiple apps for BreadTrip.
    - Successfully migrated the project from Objective-C to Swift.
    - Built the BreadHunter app from scratch.
- <strong>Pocket doctor</strong> 
- Project Description： 
    - An internet platform for doctor-patient communication, offering online text and image consultations, appointment booking, and a disease encyclopedia
- Archivements： 
    - Built the app from scratch.
    - Served as the mobile tech leader and managed the team.
    - Led core development, architectural design, and technology selection.
    - Implemented features such as image and voice processing, CoreData integration, and Storyboard implementation etc.

## Personal Project Experience
- [PicLink](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1572251464%20) - Appstore One of the simplest and most practical image hosting tools on . Supports various image hosting platforms, including Github, Gitee, Amazon AWS, Imgur, SM.MS, Tencent, Alibaba OSS, Qiniu Cloud, and custom image hosting, etc.
- [MIDIClock](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/id1632785284) - A beautiful digital clock with various clock themes. Developed using Swift, SwiftUI, SpriteKit, and supports iOS, iPad, MacOS. Also supports widgets and multiple languages such as English, Chinese, and Spanish. 

## Personal Interests
I like sports and challenge myself. Currently, joining sport activities 5-6 times a week. I have a passion for running (previously maintained a daily 5km running routine for years), basketball, football, scuba diving (PADI OW/Freediver certified), motorcycling, snow bording, and other outdoor activities.
I Love traveling and exploring different cultures and lives and also love cooking and enjoy exploring and preparing delicious meals. Additionally, I have an interest in singing and playing the guitar, as well as exploring new and exciting activities.